---
title: Button / SplitButton
route: /Button/SplitButton
---

# SplitButton

A SplitButton is a variation of the Menu component formed by combining a SplitButton with a MenuButton. It is used to trigger an action and also show a menu of related actions.

For the component to work correctly, the `ChildContent` **must**  contain a `FluentMenuList` with menu items.

The primary action button and menu button will be automatically generated by the component. The primary action can be controlled with the `OnClick` parameter. The menu actions can be controlled with the `OnMenuClick` and `OnMenuCheckedChanged` parameters.

## Appearance

{{ SplitButtonDefault }}


## Icons

You can add icons to a button to help identify the action it triggers.  To do this, you can use an
`IconStart` or `IconEnd` property to add an icon to the beginning or end of the button text.

For a MenuButton, the `IconEnd` by default uses a chevron down icon. By supplying your own value, this can be overruled.

When using `IconStart` or `IconEnd`without supplying any content, the button will be displayed in a smaller form.
By setting the `IconOnly` parameter to true, you can use an icon as the button's content but still have it display in a smaller form. 

By putting an icon in the content, it is possible to specify a `Color` for the icon.

{{ SplitButtonIcon }}

## Shape

Menu buttons can be square, rounded, or circular.

{{ SplitButtonShapes }}

## Size

{{ SplitButtonSizes }}


## API FluentSplitButton

{{ API Type=FluentSplitButton }}

